RHDEVDOCS-5877: Adding Content for NotificationsConfiguration GA (#72540)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/con_notifications-configuration.adoc

> :_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT

Author: Fixed.

[id="notifications-configuration_{context}"]

> = NotificationsConfiguration

Author: Thanks for letting me know about this error. I have changed the title to "NotificationsConfiguration custom resource properties". Hope this title fits our modular doc guidelines.

> The `NotificationsConfiguration` is a Kubernetes custom resource (CR) that manages notifications in a Kubernetes cluster. In {gitops-title}, the `NotificationsConfiguration` (CR) allows users to add Templates, Triggers, Services, and Subscriptions resources to an Argo CD Notifications ConfigMap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `NotificationsConfiguration` resource is a Kubernetes custom resource (CR) that manages notifications in a Kubernetes cluster. In {gitops-title}, the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR allows users to add templates, triggers, services, and subscriptions resources to an Argo CD `Notifications` config map.
```
1. Missing an object reference in the first sentence: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#object-reference
2. There needs to be a distinction between general and specific object references: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#general-references

Author: Fixed.

> The `NotificationsConfiguration` parameter is a Kubernetes custom resource (CR) that manages notifications in a Kubernetes cluster. In {gitops-title}, the `NotificationsConfiguration` (CR) allows users to add Templates, Triggers, Services, and Subscriptions resources to an Argo CD Notifications ConfigMap.

Reviewer 2: it is not a parameter.

You can just say "The `NotificationsConfiguration` is a Kubernetes Custom Resource"

Author: Fixed.

> When you create a cluster in {gitops-title}, a `NotificationsConfiguration` (CR) is created by default with the name `default-notifications-configuration`.

Reviewer 2: When you create a cluster in {gitops-title} with **notifications enabled**.

Author: Fixed.

> When you create a cluster in {gitops-title} with notifications enabled, a `NotificationsConfiguration` (CR) is created by default with the name `default-notifications-configuration`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create a cluster in {gitops-title} with notifications enabled, a `NotificationsConfiguration` CR is created by default with the name `default-notifications-configuration`.
```

Author: Fixed.

> Any change made in the existing configuration of the `NotificationsConfiguration` is replicated in Argo CD Notifications ConfigMap. For example, if the user adds some trigger configuration in the `NotificationsConfiguration` resource, this configuration is read, processed, and updated in the Argo CD Notifications ConfigMap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any change made in the existing configuration of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR is replicated in the Argo CD `Notifications` config map. For example, if the user adds  trigger configuration in the `NotificationsConfiguration` resource, this configuration is read, processed, and updated in the Argo CD `Notifications` config map.
```

Author: Fixed.

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[IMPORTANT]
```
Because in the admonition we mention words such as "must" and we also mention support, this should be important admonition: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#admonitions

Author: Fixed.

> ====
> - Any configuration changes must be updated in `default-notifications-configuration`. Custom resources created by the users for `NotificationsConfiguration` are not supported.
> - Any modification to the Argo CD Notifications ConfigMap, `argocd-notifications-cm`, are overriden by the changes made in the `NotificationsConfiguration`.
> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
====
Any configuration changes must be updated in  the `default-notifications-configuration` CR. Custom resources created by the users for `NotificationsConfiguration` resource are not supported.

Any modification to the Argo CD `argocd-notifications-cm` config map are overridden by the changes made in the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.
====
```

Author: Fixed.

> The `NotificationsConfiguration` Custom Resource consists of the following properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `NotificationsConfiguration` custom resource consists of the following properties.
```

Author: Fixed.

* `Templates` - Templates are used to generate the notification template message.
* `Triggers` - Triggers are used to define the condition when a notification is sent to the user and the list of templates required to generate the message.
* `Services` - Services are used to deliver message.
* `Subscriptions` - Subscriptions contain centrally managed global application subscriptions.

The default value for all these resources is `empty`.

> The following examples define how to add Templates, Triggers, Services and Subscriptions resources to an Argo CD Notifications ConfigMap, `argocd-notification-cm`, using the `default-notifications-configuration` custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples define how to add templates, triggers, services, and subscription resources to the Argo CD `argocd-notification-cm`` config map by using the `default-notifications-configuration` custom resource.
```

Author: Fixed.

> .An example for `Templates`
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> yaml
> apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
> kind: NotificationsConfiguration
> metadata:
>  name: default-notifications-configuration
> spec:
>  templates:
>   template.my-custom-template: |
>     message: |
>      Application details: {{.context.argocdUrl}}/applications/{{.app.metadata.name}}.
> ----

Reviewer: Adding some explanations in the form of callouts to all the examples would be better. See: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#using-asciidoc-callouts-in-the-yaml
For example:
```suggestion
.An example for `Templates`
[source,yaml]
----
yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: NotificationsConfiguration
metadata:
 name: default-notifications-configuration
spec:
 templates: # <1>
  template.my-custom-template: | 
    message: | # <2>
     Application details: {{.context.argocdUrl}}/applications/{{.app.metadata.name}}.
----
<1> Explanation 1.
<2> Explanation 2.
```

Author: Fixed.

spec:
 triggers:
  trigger.on-sync-status-unknown: |
   - when: app.status.sync.status == 'Unknown'
   send: [my-custom-template]
----

.An example for `Services`
[source,yaml]
----
yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: NotificationsConfiguration
metadata:
 name: default-notifications-configuration
spec:
 Services:
  service.slack: |
    token: $slack-token
    username: <override-username> # optional username
    icon: <override-icon> # optional icon for the message (supports both emoji and url notation)
----

.An example for `Subscriptions`
[source,yaml]
----
yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: NotificationsConfiguration
metadata:
 name: default-notifications-configuration
spec:
 Subscriptions: |
  subscriptions: |
    # subscription for on-sync-status-unknown trigger notifications
    - recipients:
    - slack:test2
    - email:test@gmail.com
    triggers:
    - on-sync-status-unknown
    # subscription restricted to applications with matching labels only
    - recipients:
    - slack:test3
    selector: test=true
    triggers:
    - on-sync-status-unknown
icon: <override-icon> # optional icon for the message (supports both emoji and url notation)
----

> You can configure the `NotificationsConfiguration` by using the {OCP} web console or the CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR by using the {OCP} web console or the CLI.
```

Author: Fixed.

Any change made in the existing configuration of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR is replicated in the Argo CD `Notifications` config map. For example, if the user adds  trigger configuration in the `NotificationsConfiguration` resource, this configuration is read, processed, and updated in the Argo CD `Notifications` config map.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Any configuration changes must be updated in  the `default-notifications-configuration` CR. Custom resources created by the users for `NotificationsConfiguration` resource are not supported.

Any modification to the Argo CD `argocd-notifications-cm` config map is overridden by the changes made in the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.
====

The `NotificationsConfiguration` custom resource consists of the following properties:

* `templates` - `templates` are used to generate the notification template message.
* `triggers` - `triggers` are used to define the condition when a notification is sent to the user and the list of templates required to generate the message.
* `services` - `services` are used to deliver message.

> * `subscriptions` - `subscriptions` contain centrally managed global application subscriptions.

Author: Fixed.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * argocd_instance/argo-cd-cr-component-properties.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="notifications-configuration_{context}"]

> = NotificationsConfiguration custom resource properties

Reviewer: Just a small comment, but the ID should now correspond with the title :+1:

Author: Fixed.

> The `NotificationsConfiguration` resource is a Kubernetes custom resource (CR) that manages notifications in a Kubernetes cluster. In {gitops-title}, the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR allows users to add templates, triggers, services, and subscriptions resources to an Argo CD `Notifications` config map.

Author: Fixed.

When you create a cluster in {gitops-title} with notifications enabled, a `NotificationsConfiguration` CR is created by default with the name `default-notifications-configuration`.

Any change made in the existing configuration of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR is replicated in the Argo CD `Notifications` config map. For example, if the user adds  trigger configuration in the `NotificationsConfiguration` resource, this configuration is read, processed, and updated in the Argo CD `Notifications` config map.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Any configuration changes must be updated in  the `default-notifications-configuration` CR. Custom resources created by the users for `NotificationsConfiguration` resource are not supported.

> Any modification to the Argo CD `argocd-notifications-cm` config map are overridden by the changes made in the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any modification to the Argo CD `argocd-notifications-cm` config map is overridden by the changes made in the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.
```

Author: Fixed.

====

> The `NotificationsConfiguration` custom resource consists of the following properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `NotificationsConfiguration` custom resource consists of the following properties:
```

Author: Fixed.

* `Templates` - Templates are used to generate the notification template message.
* `Triggers` - Triggers are used to define the condition when a notification is sent to the user and the list of templates required to generate the message.
* `Services` - Services are used to deliver message.
* `Subscriptions` - Subscriptions contain centrally managed global application subscriptions.

The default value for all these resources is `empty`.

> The following examples define how to add templates, triggers, services, and subscription resources to the Argo CD `argocd-notification-cm`` config map by using the `default-notifications-configuration` custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples define how to add templates, triggers, services, and subscription resources to the Argo CD `argocd-notification-cm` config map by using the `default-notifications-configuration` custom resource.
```

Author: Fixed.

> 
> +
> .Example for `templates`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Example for `templates`
```

Author: Fixed.

> [source,yaml]
> ----
> yaml
> apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
> kind: NotificationsConfiguration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: NotificationsConfiguration
```

Author: Fixed.

metadata:
 name: default-notifications-configuration <1>
spec:

>  templates:

Reviewer: One thing to verify. The object when marked in backticks (` `` `) needs to correspond exactly with the real name of that object. What I mean by this: the lowercase and uppercase matters. Throughout the modules I see instances of the objects with uppercase: `Templates`, `Triggers`, `Services` `Subscriptions`, but then in the yaml example I can see `templates`, ` triggers`, but then `Services`, `Subscriptions`. This needs to be verified. Please check and make the changes as appropriate with all the cases where you put the objects in backticks (` `` `).

>  name: default-notifications-configuration <1>
> spec:
>  templates:
>   template.my-custom-template: | <2>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 name: default-notifications-configuration # <1>
spec:
 templates:
  template.my-custom-template: | # <2>
```
As per: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#using-asciidoc-callouts-in-the-yaml

Author: Fixed.

    message: |
     Application details: {{.context.argocdUrl}}/applications/{{.app.metadata.name}}.
----

> <1> Default name of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR in a cluster
> <2> Sample configuration for adding a custom template configuration to the the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Default name of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR in a cluster.
<2> An example custom template configuration for the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.
```
Adding missing periods. Plus I tried to add a little clarity to the second point so that it is more concise.

Author: Fixed.

> 
> +
> .Example for `triggers`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Example for `triggers`
```

Author: Fixed.

> [source,yaml]
> ----
> yaml
> apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
```

Author: Fixed.

kind: NotificationsConfiguration
metadata:

>  name: default-notifications-configuration <1>
> spec:
>  triggers:
>   trigger.on-sync-status-unknown: | <2>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 name: default-notifications-configuration # <1>
spec:
 triggers:
  trigger.on-sync-status-unknown: | # <2>
```

Author: Fixed.

   - when: app.status.sync.status == 'Unknown'
   send: [my-custom-template]
----

> <1> Default name of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR in a cluster
> <2> Sample configuration for adding custom trigger configuration to the the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Default name of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR in a cluster.
<2> An example custom trigger configuration for the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.

```

Author: Fixed.

> <2> An example custom trigger configuration for the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.
> 
> +
> .Example for `services`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> An example custom trigger configuration for the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.

.Example for `services`
```

Author: Fixed.

> [source,yaml]
> ----
> yaml
> apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
```

Author: Fixed.

kind: NotificationsConfiguration
metadata:

>  name: default-notifications-configuration <1>
> spec:
>  Services:
>   service.slack: |
>     token: $slack-token <2>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 name: default-notifications-configuration # <1>
spec:
 Services:
  service.slack: |
    token: $slack-token # <2>
```

    username: <override-username> # optional username
    icon: <override-icon> # optional icon for the message (supports both emoji and url notation)
----

> <1> Default name of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR in a cluster
> <2> Sample configuration for adding custom services configuration to the the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Default name of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR in a cluster.
<2> An example custom service configuration for the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.
```

> 
> +
> .Example for `subscriptions`
> [source,yaml]

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Example for `subscriptions`
[source,yaml]
```

> [source,yaml]
> ----
> yaml
> apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
```

Author: Fixed.

kind: NotificationsConfiguration

> metadata:
>  name: default-notifications-configuration <1>
> spec:
>  Subscriptions: |
>   subscriptions: | <2>
>     # subscription for on-sync-status-unknown trigger notifications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metadata:
 name: default-notifications-configuration # <1>
spec:
 Subscriptions: |
  subscriptions: | # <2>
    # subscription for on-sync-status-unknown trigger notifications
```

Author: Fixed.

    - recipients:
    - slack:test2
    - email:test@gmail.com
    triggers:
    - on-sync-status-unknown
    # subscription restricted to applications with matching labels only
    - recipients:
    - slack:test3
    selector: test=true
    triggers:
    - on-sync-status-unknown
icon: <override-icon> # optional icon for the message (supports both emoji and url notation)
----

> <1> Default name of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR in a cluster
> <2> Sample configuration for adding custom subscription configuration to the the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Default name of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR in a cluster.
<2> An example custom subscription configuration for the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.
```

Author: Fixed.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * argocd_instance/argo-cd-cr-component-properties.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="notifications-configuration-custom-resource-properties_{context}"]
= NotificationsConfiguration custom resource properties

The `NotificationsConfiguration` resource is a Kubernetes custom resource (CR) that manages notifications in a Kubernetes cluster. In {gitops-title}, you can add templates, triggers, services, and subscription resources to an Argo CD `Notifications` config map by using  the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.

> When you create a cluster in {gitops-title} with notifications enabled, a `NotificationsConfiguration` CR is created by default with the name `default-notifications-configuration`.

Author: Not fixed.

Any change made in the existing configuration of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR is replicated in the Argo CD `Notifications` config map. For example, if the user adds  trigger configuration in the `NotificationsConfiguration` resource, this configuration is read, processed, and updated in the Argo CD `Notifications` config map.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Any configuration changes must be updated in  the `default-notifications-configuration` CR. Custom resources created by the users for `NotificationsConfiguration` resource are not supported.

Any modification to the Argo CD `argocd-notifications-cm` config map is overridden by the changes made in the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.
====

.`NotificationsConfiguration` custom resource properties
[cols="1,1,1",options="header"]
|====

> |**Properties** |**Default** |**Description**

Author: @Srivaralakshmi and @skopacz1, as per the earlier [comment](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/72540#discussion_r1526270336), I am keeping the Default column as the second column.

|Templates

> |__<empty>__

Author: Fixed.

|Templates are used to generate the notification template message.

|Triggers

> |__<empty>__

Author: Fixed.

|Triggers are used to define the condition when a notification is sent to the user and the list of templates required to generate the message.

> |Services

Reviewer 3: @Dhruv-Soni11 How do these properties appear int he spec? Please refer to the argo-cd-cr-component-properties.adoc file.

Ask the SME to share the spec and present these properties exactly that way.

Author: Fixed as per earlier [comment](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/72540#discussion_r1526270336).

> |<empty>

Author: Fixed.

|empty

> |`subscriptions`

Reviewer 3: @Dhruv-Soni11 pls check whish subscriptions you are mentioning here. The one with capital S or with small case. Consult with SME if need be.

Also. The table format is much better aiding in better readability. Pls note that in previous table default is the second column. Maintain consistency please. Also see how empty is written in previous tables. Consult with SME on this if need be and do the needful Thank you.

Author: I have just fixed this feedback, @Srivaralakshmi. Please check and confirm if it is fine.

Reviewer 3: @Dhruv-Soni11 Please pay attention to the comments given. You have not implemented it fully. Move Default to the 3rd column. TY!

Author: @Srivaralakshmi - I did pay attention and changed the **default** column placement from the 3rd column to the 2nd column by referring to the table in the Repo Server Properties section. I believe your previous statement said the **default** column is in the 2nd column. I am happy to change it again.

However, I detect an inconsistency with the **default**" column placement in the previous sections.

In the Repo Server Properties section, the **default** column is the second column, and

In the Argo CD custom resource properties section, the **default** column is the third column.

Do you suggest that we remove the inconsistency from there as well?

Reviewer 3: @Dhruv-Soni11 Yes, what I mean is exactly that. We must give our readers/users a unified experience. Thanks for the understanding. I really do appreciate the effective change you are bringing into the GitOps docs through your great work. Thanks a lot.

Author: Hi @Srivaralakshmi - As per the [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16wc3zqke03RDFAm1zv0Qjdo9lL2MgQE2orA1HmoHoeo/edit#heading=h.3qhjblbib0f8) shared by @iam-veeramalla, the default column is the second column. PTAL.

> |__<empty>__

Author: Fixed.

> |Subscriptions contain centrally managed global application subscriptions.

Author: Fixed.

|====

The following examples define how to add templates, triggers, services, and subscription resources to the Argo CD `argocd-notification-cm` config map by using the `default-notifications-configuration` custom resource.

.Example for `templates`
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: NotificationsConfiguration
metadata:
 name: default-notifications-configuration # <1>
spec:
 templates:
  template.my-custom-template: | # <2>
    message: |
     Application details: {{.context.argocdUrl}}/applications/{{.app.metadata.name}}.
----
<1> Default name of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR in a cluster.
<2> An example custom template configuration for the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.

.Example for `triggers`
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: NotificationsConfiguration
metadata:
 name: default-notifications-configuration # <1>
spec:
 triggers:
  trigger.on-sync-status-unknown: | # <2>
   - when: app.status.sync.status == 'Unknown'
   send: [my-custom-template]
----

> <1> Default name of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR in a cluster

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<1> Default name of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR in a cluster.
```

Author: Fixed.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: NotificationsConfiguration
metadata:
 name: default-notifications-configuration # <1>
spec:
 Services:
  service.slack: |
    token: $slack-token # <2>
    username: <override-username> # optional username
    icon: <override-icon> # optional icon for the message (supports both emoji and url notation)
----
<1> Default name of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR in a cluster.
<2> An example custom service configuration for the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.

.Example for `subscriptions`
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: NotificationsConfiguration
metadata:
 name: default-notifications-configuration # <1>
spec:
 Subscriptions: |
  subscriptions: | # <2>
    # subscription for on-sync-status-unknown trigger notifications
    - recipients:
    - slack:test2
    - email:test@gmail.com
    triggers:
    - on-sync-status-unknown
    # subscription restricted to applications with matching labels only
    - recipients:
    - slack:test3
    selector: test=true
    triggers:
    - on-sync-status-unknown
icon: <override-icon> # optional icon for the message (supports both emoji and url notation)
----

> <1> Default name of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR in a cluster

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<1> Default name of the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR in a cluster.
```

Author: Fixed.

<2> An example custom subscription configuration for the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR.

> You can configure the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR by using the {OCP} web console or the CLI.

Reviewer 4: I'd just add `oc` here:
```suggestion
You can configure the `NotificationsConfiguration` CR by using the {OCP} web console or the CLI (`oc`).
```

Author: Fixed.
